If you're watching this video, you're
probably not charging enough. And guess
what? You already know that. If you
didn't, you wouldn't have clicked on it.
So, charging more is not a complicated
thing, but it does require a mindset
shift. Some people have this mindset
shift automatically by virtue of their
surroundings, their family, and their
situation. Other people, like me, and
probably you, need to learn it manually.
In this video, I'm going to give you my
best shot at explaining how to charge
more specifically for AI and automation
services, but you can apply this to any
agency business. So number one, flood
your pipeline. When I say flood your
pipeline, I legitimately mean expand
your top of funnel as much as humanly
possible and cram as many leads into
that pipeline as you can. The reason why
is because the issue with not charging
enough usually stems from having a
scarce or limited set of options and
clients that you could charge stuff to.
So the straightest line path to charging
more is just to give yourself more
options. Hypothetically, if you had
three potential client options today,
okay, three leads that said yes to you.
The first said yes for $1,000, the
second said yes for $1,500, and the
third said yes for $2,000. Which one
would you pick? Obviously, the $2,000
one, right? Well, the shortest line path
to making more money is by getting 10
times as many people in there. And just
do both to natural statistics and then
just the packages and products that
you're selling. You'll have a variety of
people at different price ranges. Now,
instead of you being forced to pick
between a,000, $1,500, and then $2,000
client, you might have 15 options. one
at $10,000, the other at $8,000, the
other at 1,500, the other at 500, the
other at 750, the other at $1,895.
What are you going to do? You're just
going to rank them top to bottom and
pick the one that's willing to pay you
the most money for your time. So,
another reason why a lot of people are
afraid of flooding their pipeline is
because they're really worried about not
being able to fulfill the work or
whatever. Well, there are two things
I'll say to this. Number one, you can
always just say no. You having a lead is
significantly better than you not having
a lead. At least you have access to that
opportunity. But when push comes to
shove, if you legitimately can't take on
that work, you can always just say no to
them for one. And then for two,
somewhere in the process of building a
extraordinarily high volume lead funnel,
you will acquire skills that will
naturally enable you to be better on
sales calls, better during the
interaction, and ultimately charge more
money. Your ability to charge is really
all just based off your perceived
authority, the nonchalants of the prices
that you deal with, and then your target
audience. So flooding your pipeline
represents a quick and easy way to just
knock it out of the park on all of those
metrics. Number two, land and expand.
When I say land and expand, what I mean
here is to prioritize the acquisition of
the client over all else. This is
similar in nature to flooding your
pipeline. We're at the very top of the
funnel now. We're one step down when it
comes to the actual sales side of
things. If you just land as many clients
as humanly possible at the beginning of
your journey, if you just get really
good at demand generation and so on and
so forth, it'll enable you to deliver
very quick wins and then upsell
significantly bigger engagements which
allow you to do things like lock in
retainers. Now, the thing about the AI
and automation agency business model
specifically, not any agency, but ours,
is that we have very high lifetime
values. LTV is a fantastic three-letter
acronym and one that I think about
pretty much all the time when I'm
selling these services because the very
first client project that you might sell
might only net you $500,000, $2,000. If
you get in the habit of building in a
recurring service and then offering that
recurring service to every one of your
clients, you'll find that while the
initial average order value might be
really low at $500,000, $1,500 over the
lifetime of that client engagement,
let's say 6 months at an average $3,000,
you're adding on something like another
20k. So LTVs in the 20, 30, $50,
$100,000 range here are not uncommon.
And if you can get in the habit of just
landing clients as quickly as humanly
possible, acquiring as many of them as
you can and then worrying about how to
price higher later through upsells and
that sort of thing, you'll do a lot
better. I had a client once that I sold
something like $500 to. It was sometime
in the first three or four weeks of me
starting the AI automation agency. That
client over their lifetime paid me over
16 grand. Now, when I acquired them for
500 bucks, I was obviously thinking,
man, what a cheap client. You know, I
can't do anything right. Whatever. I
need this client to pay the bills. But I
segueed that person into a structured
upsell formula that enabled me to
eventually pitch them on a retainer over
$4,000 a month. And then, you know, as I
talked about, get a crazy high lifetime
value. So, that is how you do it. You
frontload acquisition. After you're done
front-loading acquisition, you have
significantly more opportunities. You're
no longer thinking scarcely, and you can
start doing things like running
bi-weekly or quarterly follow-up
campaigns to pass clientele to
reactivate. The point three is to stop
trading hours for dollars. Now, when I
say stop trading hours for dollars,
everybody here just like instinctively
nods their head and says yes. But how
many of you guys actually go out and
stop trading your hours for dollars? So,
I could talk about this topic all day,
and I actually do in Maker School, where
I show people how to get their first
automation customer in 90 days or their
money back, but I'm going to leave it
pretty short here. The reality is if you
position your experience in hours,
you're almost always shortch changing
yourself because the value that you
provide as a service, you know, somebody
in the service sector is not in the
amount of time it takes to do the thing.
It is in the amount of time and energy
that you spent over the course of the
last x years building up the skills that
enable you to now do the thing. If you
simply charge for current implementation
time, not only are you shortch changing
yourself, but you are also by default
misaligning incentives. If you're a
fantastic service provider, you're
probably going to do things really
quickly. Now, in my case, I can build
naden, make.com, and other automated
flows in like 15, 20 minutes that might
take somebody else 10 hours. Why should
I be compensated 140th of the amount
that they are? Obviously, I'm going to
charge more money based off that hourly
rate than they would. But hopefully you
guys see my point. The ratio is just so
disproportionate, it doesn't make sense.
So, when you get really good at
something, make sure to align incentives
as opposed to misaligncentives. If
you're going to charge somebody
something and that something is based on
your time, that's almost impossible to
do because the better you are at
something, the faster you're going to be
able to deliver that. I also find it
pretty dishonest. One big issue that I
see in the agency space is when people
inflate their hours. They say something
like, "This project h this is going to
take me 15 hours." And then they spend
20 hours on it and they build a client
30 hours for it. So, what's the
alternative to trading hours for
dollars? It is called valuebased
pricing. Now, if you haven't heard of
valuebased pricing before, in a
nutshell, what you do is you do a little
bit of math in your head. You start a
conversation with the prospect. You ask
them, "What problem are you struggling
with?" As they tell you about the
problems that they're struggling with,
you quantify a dollar value that that
problem or those sets of problems are
costing them. And then you calculate
direct savings that you would be able to
generate by solving that problem. And
then also the opportunity cost of you
solving that problem for them, aka them
not having that problem. how much better
would their business be? So, I'll give
you a quick example. Let's say you build
a simple automated invoice follow-up
system for a client and you're like,
"What the hell do I price? Nick told me
not to price hourly, so clearly I need a
different way." In conversations with
the client, you realize that right now
they are spending hypothetically 10
hours a month of somebody that they are
paying $50 an hour to do the invoice
follow-ups for. So, the direct expense
on that is 10 hours * $50 an hour equals
$500. If you were not a very competent
service provider, if you weren't
thinking about revenue and you were only
thinking about savings, you'd actually
stop here and you'd say, "Well, my
automation only saves them $500.
Therefore, the value is $500." But the
value of your automation is
significantly higher than that. And not
only the value of your automation, the
value of you as a business consultant is
significantly higher than that. Why?
Because you're not calculating the
opportunity cost. Now, the opportunity
cost is so much bigger by default, and
this is really what you should be
focusing on. So, we have the $500 in
savings. Now, let's also hypothetically
say that because they have a manual
invoice process, on average, they miss
one invoice that they otherwise would
have collected, instead of collecting
within 30 days, they collect within 45
days. Well, mathematically, if you
collect invoices on a 45day cadence
instead of a 30-day cadence, let's say
for some recurring service, what you're
doing is you are lengthening the invoice
cycle, meaning that you are capable of
fitting fewer invoice cycles in a year.
Mathematically, if you have 12 invoice
cycles at a 30-day period, then you have
20 invoice cycles at a 45day period,
that means that that company, assuming
that, you know, we average it out at one
missed invoice per month pushed back to
a 45day period, is legitimately losing
30% of their entire revenue. Now, you
could certainly debate the merits with
me all day about whether having this
system would truly lead to that or if
this is just a hypothetical or
theoretical calculation, and that's
okay. The thing that's important is that
the client agrees with you and that the
client believes it and internalizes it.
And often times what I find is when I
throw an opportunity cost metric at the
client, that actually ends up severely
undervaluing the actual dollar value
impact of my service because there's a
lot that I'm not even considering. And
there's also a lot of like missed
psychological impact that them simply
having a growing business would improve.
So let's hypothetically say this
business makes $100,000 per year. Well,
if they're missing 30% approximately of
their revenue, the total value of the
system is no longer just $500 in
savings. It's $500 in savings plus
$30,000 a year. So 500 * 12 is 6,000.
6,000 plus 30,000 is 36,000. The total
value of the system that you're
delivering is 36 grand a year, which is
actually pretty dang chunky. So now
you're not pitching based off of hours.
What you're doing is you're identifying
the total value of your automation or
your service to the client and you're
pitching a portion of that. Generally
speaking, the portion that you can pitch
is somewhere between 30 to 50%. If it's
direct savings based, 50% is usually my
ceiling. If it's more revenue based, you
know, simply because every business has
different margins. I usually charge
between 20 to 30% of that. In a
nutshell, if you were delivering an
automation or a service that solved a
$36,000 a year problem for that client,
I might go as much as charging seven to
maybe $10,000 in value per year. So now
you're no longer thinking like a
builder. You're thinking like a
consultant. You're thinking like a
partner. And this is one of the simplest
and straightest line paths to pricing
more. Point four is to solve richer
problems. If I give you two target
audiences here, let's say the first are
dog walkers in Milwaukee and the second
are financiers in New York. Which one do
you think is going to have more money
available to pay me? Obviously, the
financeers, right? So, this is the
simplest possible explanation of why it
makes sense to solve rich people
problems. Now that you understand value
based pricing, you know that the
problems that the dog walker would be
facing in terms of the opportunity cost
and maybe their total expenses, you know
the total scope of problems that you
might be able to solve with an
automation for them might equate to
about $100,000 a year. But the finance
here, you might be able to solve a $10
million a year problem. So just by
default, you are doing something like a
100x the total possible revenue and
pricing amount. One of the quickest and
simplest ways to make more money is
literally just like talking to the
people that are loaded and trying to
solve their problems as opposed to
talking to the people that are maybe a
little poorer and trying to solve
theirs. There's also a question of
volume here. I mean, if you had the
option to make $10,000 a month servicing
three clients or make $10,000 a month
servicing 15 clients, wouldn't you
rather make $10,000 a month servicing
three clients? This isn't a hard and
fast rule, but you're probably going to
spend a lot less time servicing those
three clients than you'd service 15
clients, assuming that you have some
sort of standardized service, which I'll
touch on in a moment. But the point that
I'm making is simply by virtue of the
fact that you're working with wealthier
people, you get to eliminate a lot of
the fixed costs in the agency business
model. Like, if you work with more
people by default, basically every time
that you sign on a new client, you're
going to need to do some sort of kickoff
call. You're going to need to do some
sort of client comms or client
management. You're going to need to do
some sort of back and forth, basically.
And these fixed costs tend to be very
very similar whether you're working with
a really rich client or really poor
client. So it's like, well, if these are
going to be the similar cost, I might as
well make way more upside than a much
smaller amount of upside. And you can
talk all day about how, well, think
about the downside risk. The more
clients you have, the lower the
probability of any one of those clients
leaving negatively impacting your
revenue and whatnot. And while I think
this is true if we're talking like a big
public company that's making, you know,
hundreds of millions of dollars a year,
I definitely don't think that this is
true if we're just talking like an AI
and automation business that's maybe
somewhere in the $5,000 a month to
$50,000 a month range. So for me, I
always focus on solving richer people
problems because I'm solving richer
people problems. I can thus charge
richer people prices. Point five is
don't sell features, sell futures.
Instead of you trying to sell a
technical implementation of your NADN
workflow and how it improves efficiency
by 33% in some metric that only you care
about being a nerd like I am, focus more
on the outcomes that that is delivering.
Talk return on investment. You know, if
you're going to use a three-letter
acronym, let it be ROI and not API. You
know, clients don't care about things
like relative metrics for the most part,
and they definitely don't care about
things like this cloud service provider
is 7% more efficient than that cloud
service provider. What clients care
about is can you put money in their
pocket? And actually, if you could like
abstract away the entire service of
yours, like everything that you do, and
just give it to them as a black box and
say, "Hey, if you put $5 into this black
box, you'll get $50 back." clients would
prefer that versus $5 and then we're
going to do this triple authentication
thing, pass it through a four layer LLM
with uh egente logic. They'd much prefer
the former because they just don't have
to worry about it. They don't have
anything to think about. Client lives
are busy enough as is if you're working
in the B2B space. You don't want to add
on more work for them. If anything,
they're paying you to remove work for
them, right? So, ideally, in like a
hyperefficient futuristic economy,
everything is just a black box.
Everything is an interface. A client
pays $5 and they receive $50 in return.
They get a 10x ROI. Budget allocation
becomes extraordinarily simple. Then you
also remove a lot of the friction like
clients understanding what this stuff
is, wondering at, you know, how to do it
best, getting confused because every
time they type a query into chat GBT, it
spits out something completely and
utterly wrong at them and so on and so
forth. Treat your service as a black box
and then sell futures, not features.
Point six is productize or die. Now, if
you can't standardize a business, you
can't scale it. This is unfortunate and
something that I had to learn the hard
way many, many times. But if you can't
standardize, if you can't make the
service delivery as close to the same as
humanly possible every time you deliver
it, you'll have to hit a cap
necessarily. And that cap depends on
just, you know, how productive you are
as a person. But even the most
productive people tend to hit a cap
reasonably low. So, I think that at
least for this business model as the
time of this recording, that cap is
somewhere between maybe $30 to $50,000
on average. If you're like
extraordinarily talented, I think you as
a solo business person could make a
little bit more than that. I think if
maybe you don't have as many of the
productivity foundations, you're
probably going to cap out somewhere
between $5 to $10,000 a month.
Obviously, you can add team members and
scale the business that way, but it's
much much more efficient and much more
effective to standardize the business
model and then productize. basically
build a systematic business then try and
band-aid over it by just throwing
manpower at it. I think we've all seen
or dealt with businesses that like are
foundationally wrong that just have like
some issue in their business model that
makes it extraordinarily difficult and
extraordinarily terrible for customers
to interact with and then they just
think hm well every time I hire another
person that allows us to expand by xyz
percentage. So what they do logically is
they just throw a bunch of people at the
problem. Well, had they just before all
of this taken a step back and asked,
"How can we systematize this? How can we
standardize it? How can we scale it the
best? How can we build like a modular
sort of business that can expand with as
minimal a headcount as humanly
possible?" They never would have found
themselves in those shoes to begin with.
And that's what I recommend for you. So,
instead of like worrying about I got to
hire people, I got to scale this
business model immediately, like
actually build the foundations of the
business model. Build scalability into
the business model as opposed to just
trying to band-aid stuff over it. Now,
what do I mean by productization? I mean
really really simply from a highlevel
overview take whatever service that you
are providing look back at the last 10
clients that you provided the service
for and just write down what you did for
all 10 of those clients. Get the
similarities between them and just say
that okay the similarity steps the steps
that I did that were the same for client
1 2 3 4 10 whatever these are going to
be the steps that I do for all clients
moving forward. Trim out all the fluff.
Trim out all the variable things. And
then once you have this giant list of
steps, almost like a big checklist of
how you deliver your service, you are
now 80% of the way to productizing it.
From there, it's as simple as taking
that list of checklist steps, asking
yourself, is this checklist step
necessary? And also, is there a way that
I could do this checklist step or maybe
80% of this checklist step that doesn't
require human input? It doesn't actually
require me to spend my time. Odds are
you'll probably find that like a third
of those checklist steps are immediately
taken off your plate. And at that point,
you're going to have an 8020 list of
optimized checklist points that you can
continue delivering the service yourself
under. Or you could build completely
automated systems like an AI and
automation business to take more of that
off your plate. Simple and easy and
quick example is let's hypothetically
say previously you had three steps. You
sent an email over to the client to book
a calendar meeting and then they booked
the calendar meeting and then you guys
jumped on a kickoff call to start your
service. after the kickoff call, you
sent them a form asking them to fill out
whatever information. So that is
something like four or five steps. Well,
if you take a systems mindset to that,
you'll realize that you could actually
squeeze all of that thing into one or
two steps. Instead of, for instance,
sending them over an email, asking them
to book on the calendar, what you could
do is you could make booking on your
calendar a necessary part of, let's say,
paying your service or signing your
proposal. That way, the second that they
will have paid your service or signed
your proposal, you don't need additional
back and forth. You can actually just
have them book on your calendar
immediately. you will both know what
time that kickoff call is occurring.
Additionally, instead of you sending a
form after the call, you could actually
just collaboratively fill out the form
on the call with the client. Maybe it'll
lengthen the call by 5 or 10 minutes,
but now you've taken four or five steps
and you've squished them down to one or
two. This is the sort of thinking that,
as you could see, is pretty surface
level. I think anybody that has a
reasonable understanding of how the AI
agency business model works and come up
with steps like these with, you know,
maybe 30 minutes of just scratching your
head and staring at a big list of
checklist items. But these are the sorts
of ways that you turn, you know, this
haphazard business where every service
delivery is completely different into
this reliable, scalable, and repeatable
machine that prints money, not while you
sleep, but at certainly at higher
leverage points than most other people.
So, on the topic of pricing, I have a
super detailed video guide which breaks
down all of the different ways that you
could value and price AI automation
services. Definitely give that a listen
if you guys like this sort of thing.
Otherwise, let me know what mindset
shifts make the biggest difference in
your AI and automation business, as well
as how you plan on implementing these
moving forward. Just want to let
everybody here know that I really
appreciate all your time. I really
appreciate all the positive comments,
and I really, really appreciate the
subscriptions. I'll see you on the next